[DOCS] Adds Expectation API guides for GX Core prerelease (#9424)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/core/expectation_suites/manage_expectation_suites.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Manage Expectation Suites'
title: 'Manage Expectation Suites'

> description: Create and manage sets of Expectations in Python with GX Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Create and manage GX Core Expectation Suites with Python.
```

---

> An Expectation Suite contains a group of Expectations that describe the same set of data.  All of the Expectations that you apply to your data will grouped into Expectation Suites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Expectation Suite contains a group of Expectations that describe the same set of data.  All the Expectations that you apply to your data are grouped into an Expectation Suite.
```

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Installed Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Python (https://www.python.org/downloads/)
```
Is there a minimum version? If this is the only prerequisite, perhaps adding it as a second line in the introduction would be better. Also, are we recommending [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/)?

Author: There is -- I intend to replace prerequisites like this that are used repeatedly with an imported line for convenience with keeping them standardized (plus so the version only needs updated in one place).  I'm planning to do that as part of the "revise OSS guides that don't have API changes" work.

> - Installed the GX Core library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Importing the GX Core library is the first step of the procedure.

Author: It needs to be installed before it can be imported.  The installation is the `pip install great_expectations` step, not the `import great_expectations as gx` step.  I'll be replacing this line with a link to the appropriate guide once I've revised the installation and setup guides from GX OSS for GX Core.

## Create an Expectation Suite

> 1. Import the GX Core library and the `ExpectationSuite` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Import the GX Core library and the `ExpectationSuite` class:
```
You'll need to decide if you want to introduce code samples with colons. If you do, add them where necessary. Also, do you want to add _run the following code_ to your statements?

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py imports"
  ```

2. Get a Data Context.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py get_context"
  ```

3. Create an Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py create Expectation Suite"
  ```

4. Add the Expectation Suite to your Data Context.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py add snippet to Data Context"
  ```

> :::tip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
```
This might be better as an optional step. If this is unclear, we can discuss it.

Author: My thought is that this qualifies as a "tip" because it presents an optional way to consolidate the steps that were performed above.  It isn't an optional step, per say --  rather, it is an optional way of performing the previously described steps in fewer lines of code.

> You can add an Expectation Suite to your Data Context at the same time as you create the Expectation Suite with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add an Expectation Suite to your Data Context at the same time as you create the Expectation Suite with the following code:
```
Here, a colon precedes the code sample. Use the colon consistently.

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py create and add Expectation Suite to Data Context"
```
:::

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/create_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

## Get an existing Expectation Suite

1. Import the GX Core library.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_an_expectation_suite.py imports"
  ```

2. Get a Data Context.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_an_expectation_suite.py get_context"
  ```

3. Use the Data Context to retrieve the existing Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_an_expectation_suite.py create Expectation Suite"
  ```

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Edit an Expectation Suite

Reviewer: Add a space below the heading for consistency.

> 1. [Create a new](#create-a-new-expectation-suite) or [get an existing](#get-an-existing-expectation-suite) Expectation Suite.  This example creates a new Expectation Suite which will then be renamed.

Reviewer: Add a space for consistency.

> 1. [Create a new](#create-a-new-expectation-suite) or [get an existing](#get-an-existing-expectation-suite) Expectation Suite.  This example creates a new Expectation Suite which will then be renamed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create a new](#create-a-new-expectation-suite) or [get an existing](#get-an-existing-expectation-suite) Expectation Suite. 
```

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_an_expectation_suite.py create expectation suite"
  ```

2. Modify the Expectation Suite's attributes.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_an_expectation_suite.py edit attribute"
  ```

3. Save the Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_an_expectation_suite.py save the Expectation"
  ```

  :::info  

>   The `save()` method of an Expectation Suite will also save any changes that have been made to Expectations contained by that Expectation Suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `save()` method saves any changes to Expectations in the Expectation Suite.
```

  :::

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

## Delete an Expectation Suite

> 1. Import the GX Core library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Import the GX Core library.
```
Why is this the first step?

Author: Each of these examples is self-contained, so that there aren't any missing steps if the user skips to a particular procedure without looking at the previous ones.  Therefore, each needs to start with `import great_expectations as gx`.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/delete_an_expectation_suite.py imports"
  ```

2. Get a Data Context.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/delete_an_expectation_suite.py get_context"
  ```

3. Get the Expectation Suite to delete from the Data Context.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/delete_an_expectation_suite.py get Expectation Suite"
  ```

4. Use the Data Context to delete an existing Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/delete_an_expectation_suite.py delete Expectation Suite"
  ```

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/delete_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Add Expectations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add Expectations
```
To what? An Expectation Suite?

1. Import the GX Core library and `expectations` module.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py imports"
  ```

2. Get a Data Context.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py get_context"
  ```

3. [Create a new](#create-a-new-expectation-suite) or [get an existing](#get-an-existing-expectation-suite) Expectation Suite.  This example retrieves an existing Expectation Suite.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py get_suite"
  ```

4. Create an Expectation.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py create an Expectation"
  ```

>   The specific parameters provided when initializing an Expectation depend on the Expectation class.  You can view available Expectations and the parameters they take in the [Expectation Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The specific parameters you provide when initializing an Expectation are determined by the Expectation class.  You can view available Expectations and the parameters they take in the [Expectation Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations).
```

5. Add the Expectation to the Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py add an Expectation to an Expectation Suite"
  ```
  :::tip 
  
  You can create an Expectation at the same time as you add it to the Expectation Suite:

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py create and add an Expectation"
  ```
  
  :::

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/add_expectations_to_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Get an Expectation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get an Expectation
```
Move to Manage Expectations.

  ```

2. Get a Data Context.

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_a_specific_expectation_from_an_expectation_suite.py get_context"
  ```

3. [Get an existing Expectation Suite](#get-an-existing-expectation-suite) that contains Expectations, or [create a new Expectation Suite](#create-a-new-expectation-suite) and [add some Expectations to it](#add-expectations-to-an-expectation-suite).  This example retrieves an existing Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_a_specific_expectation_from_an_expectation_suite.py retrieve Expectation Suite"
  ```

4. Find the desired Expectation by iterating the Expectation Suite's Expectations and comparing classes and attributes to those of the desired Expectation.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_a_specific_expectation_from_an_expectation_suite.py retrieve expectation"
  ```

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/get_a_specific_expectation_from_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Edit a single Expectation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Edit a single Expectation
```
Move to Manage Expectations.

Author: I think that this should remain under manage Expectation Suites because the workflows they describe require an Expectation Suite -- eg, Edit a single Expectation _from an Expectation Suite._. This is a "thing you can do with an Expectation Suite" rather than strictly a "Thing you can do with an Expectation".

  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_a_single_expectation.py get expectation to edit"
  ```

5. [Modify the Expectation](/core/expectations/manage_expectations.md#modify-an-expectation).
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_a_single_expectation.py edit attribute"
  ```

6. Save the modified Expectation in the Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_a_single_expectation.py save the Expectation"
  ```
  :::info
  `expectation.save()` is explicitly used to update the configuration of an Expectation in an Expectation Suite.  If the Expectation is not part of an Expectation Suite, `expectation.save()` will fail.
  
  You can [test changes to an Expectation](/core/expectations/manage_expectations.md#test-an-expectation) without running `expectation.save()`, but those changes will not persist in the Expectation Suite until `expectation.save()` is run.
  :::

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_a_single_expectation.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Edit multiple Expectations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Edit multiple Expectations
```
Move to Manage Expectations.

Author: I think that this should remain under manage Expectation Suites because the workflows they describe require an Expectation Suite -- eg, Edit multiple Expectations _in an Expectation Suite._. This is a "thing you can do with an Expectation Suite" rather than strictly a "Thing you can do with an Expectation".

  This example creates a new Expectation Suite and adds a few Expectations to it.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_all_expectations_in_an_expectation_suite.py create and populate Expectation Suite"
  ```

  If you are editing an existing Expectation Suite, retrieve it with:
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_all_expectations_in_an_expectation_suite.py get Expectation Suite"
  ```

2. Modify multiple Expectations in the Expectation Suite.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_all_expectations_in_an_expectation_suite.py modify Expectations"
  ```

3. Save the Expectation Suite and all modifications to the Expectations within it.
  ```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_all_expectations_in_an_expectation_suite.py save Expectation Suite"
  ```

<details><summary>Full example code</summary>
<p>

```python name="core/expectation_suites/_examples/edit_all_expectations_in_an_expectation_suite.py full example code"
```

</p>
</details>

> ## Delete an Expectation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delete an Expectation
```
Move to Manage Expectations.

Author: I think that this should remain under manage Expectation Suites because the workflows they describe require an Expectation Suite -- eg, Delete an Expectation _from an Expectation Suite._. This is a "thing you can do with an Expectation Suite" rather than strictly a "Thing you can do with an Expectation".
